New section of robot docs: Managing Locators (#3082)
SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI: docs/robot_locators.rst

=============================================
Managing Locators
=============================================

The keywords that come with CumulusCI are based on the open source
keyword library `SeleniumLibrary
<http://robotframework.org/SeleniumLibrary/SeleniumLibrary.html>`_. This
library supports multiple ways to reference an element: by XPath, by
CSS selector, by id, by text, and so on. SeleniumLibrary calls these

> location strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*location strategies.*
```

> These strategies can be specified by providing a prefix to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify a strategy by providing a prefix to the
```

locator.  For example:

* ``id:123`` specifies an element with an id of 123
* ``xpath://div[text()='Hello, world']`` lets you specify an element by an xpath expression
* ``css:div.slds-spinner`` defines an object by its css path

.. tip::

>    The full list of supported locator strategies can be found in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can find the full list of supported locator strategies in the
```

   section titled `Explicit locator strategy
   <https://robotframework.org/SeleniumLibrary/SeleniumLibrary.html#Explicit%20locator%20strategy>`_
   in the SeleniumLibrary documentation.

> In this section, we’ll show how to easily create a project-specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we’ll show how to create a project-specific
```

locator strategy by storing locators in a dictionary and then
associating them with a custom prefix.

Storing locators in a dictionary
--------------------------------

The first step toward creating custom locator strategies with the
locator manager is to define your project’s locators in a
dictionary. If you have just a handful of locators you can define them

> directly in a keyword library, or you can save them in a separate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly in a keyword library. You can also save them in a separate
```

file.

If you need to be able to run tests against a prerelease org you

> may want to store your locators in two files: one for the current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
might want to store your locators in two files: one for the current
```

release and one for the prerelease. You can then import the
appropriate version at runtime.

.. note::

   In order to keep the examples short we’re only going to focus on
   supporting one release at a time in this documentation.

> This dictionary can have nested dictionaries in order to allow the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dictionary of locators can include nested dictionaries, so you can
```

> organization of locators into logical groups. The leaf nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
organize locators into logical groups. The leaf nodes
```

can be any locator string supported by
SeleniumLibrary. Notice that these locator strings can include
locators of different types.

For example, consider the following set of locators which we might
find in a library of keywords for dealing with the calendar tab:

.. code-block:: python

   locators = {
       "sidebar": {
           "options button": "css:a[role='button'][title='Calendar Options']",
           "new button": "css:a[role='menuitem'][title='New Calendar']",
       },
       "modal": {
           "window": "xpath://div[@role='dialog'][.//h2[.='Create Calendar']]",
           "next button": "css:a.wzButtonSaveAndNext",
       }
   }

We’ve organized the locators into two logical groupings: one related
to elements on the sidebar, and one related to elements of a modal
window. Notice also that three of the locators are CSS selectors and
one is an XPath.

.. tip::

>   Dictionaries can be nested as deeply as you want, though it’s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Dictionaries can be nested as deeply as you want, but it’s
```

Registering the locator dictionary
----------------------------------

SeleniumLibrary provides a way to register `custom location strategies
<http://robotframework.org/SeleniumLibrary/SeleniumLibrary.html#Custom%20locators>`_
via the `Add Location Strategy
<http://robotframework.org/SeleniumLibrary/SeleniumLibrary.html#Add%20Location%20Strategy>`_
keyword. While it’s possible to write your own strategies using
keywords, the locator manager makes it easy to associate a locator
prefix with a dictionary of locators.

This registration is done via the ``register_locators`` method of the
locator manager, and should be done in the ``__init__`` method of a
keyword library.

For example, here is what it might look like for a library that
contains keywords for the calendar tab.

.. code-block:: python

   from robot.libraries.BuiltIn import BuiltIn
   from cumulusci.robotframework import locator_manager

   locators = {...}  # see previous example

   class CalendarLibrary:
       ROBOT_LIBRARY_SCOPE = "GLOBAL"

       def __init__(self):
           locator_manager.register_locators("calendar", locators)

When this library is imported into a test case file, the prefix

> “calendar” will be registered with SeleniumLibrary as a custom locator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
“calendar” is registered with SeleniumLibrary as a custom locator
```

strategy.

Using custom locators
---------------------

Once the dictionary has been defined and has been registered with a

> prefix, the locators work very similarly to any other locator. Because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prefix, the locators work very similarly to any other locator. If
```

> the dictionaries can be nested, you can separate the levels with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the dictionaries are nested, you can separate the levels with a
```

+--------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``sidebar``        | first level of the dictionary (eg: ``locators['sidebar']``)                           |
+--------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``.``              | a level separator                                                                     |
+--------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``options button`` | the next level of a nested dictionary (eg: ``locators['sidebar']['options_button']``) |
+--------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Parameterized Locators
----------------------

Sometimes the only difference between multiple elements on a page is
the text displayed in that element. For example, the html markup for a
save, edit, and cancel button may be identical except for the word
"Save", "Edit", or "Cancel".

While you could create three separate locators for these three
buttons, using a parameterized locator means we can replace three

> locators with one, which helps to keep our tech debt under control.

Reviewer: Suddenly, I'm not sure who the audience is. Is this an internal-only doc or an external developer doc? If it's external, instead of mentioning tech debt, we might want to say something like:

``` 
While you can create a separate locator for each button, it's better to use a single parameterized locator for multiple buttons, which gives you more flexibility.
```
(or whatever the benefit is).

Author: The audience is largely going to be any person writing tests on top of Salesforce. I like your suggestion, I'll make the change. Thanks!

> Notice in our calendar locators we have one locator for a menuitem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice in our calendar locators we have one locator for a ``menuitem``
```

with the title of 'New Calendar':

.. code-block::

    locators = {
        ...
        "new_button": "css:a[role='menuitem'][title='New Calendar']",
        ...
    }

> If the calendar menu had multiple menuitems, we could use a unique

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a calendar menu with multiple menuitems, you can use a unique
```

> locator for each, or we could use a single parameterized locator so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
locator for each, or a single parameterized locator so
```

> that we only need to maintain one locator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that you only need to maintain one locator.
```

> To create a locator with one or more parameters we simply need to replace a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a locator with one or more parameters, replace a
```

> portion of the locator with `{}`. When the locator is used, parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
portion of the locator with `{}` like this:
```

> can be provided which will be substituded for the `{}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The locator would then look like the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

.. code-block::

    locators = {
        ...
        "menu_item": "css:a[role='menuitem'][title='{}']",
        ...
    }

> When using the locator, one or more parameters can be passed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the locator, you can pass one or more parameters by
```

specfying a comma separated list of values after a colon. For example:

.. code-block::

    Click element  calendar:sidebar.menu_item:New Calendar

> When the locator is used with a keyword, the `{}` will get replaced with `New

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `{}` placeholders are replaced with the parameter values, in order. For example, the title in the above example becomes `New
```

> Calendar` to give us the actual locator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calendar`.
```
